---
layout: post
title: Secure your email
tags: [DataSafety Security]
last_updated: 2011-12-21
---

Your email account is the weakest for online data safety. Not only is your email your identify on the web, but should you forget a password, the "forgot password? link on any website triggers a message to your email account. If a bad actor has access to your email, you are _owned_.

###### 
"Your email is the skeleton key to all your passwords" [Jeff Atwood](https://twitter.com/#!/codinghorror/status/76394112697368576)


The way to fix this situation is to enable **two factor authentication** for your primary email. After this feature is enabled, not only is your password required but an additional proof that you are you is needed. 

## What to do
1. If you are not on gmail or hotmail, move your email to one of these two services. **Really**. They are better at spam and intrusion detection than yahoo or whatever rinkydink email program your hosting company is using. 
	* Note: If you have a custom domain you can move to gmail for free, hotmail charges a modest fee.

The way two-factor authetication works is as follows

* You download a free app on your smartphone. This app provides you with a constantly changing code [every minute]. This code is the 2nd factor of the "two-factor" authentication.
* When you next login to your account (and every 30 days and on any new device\computer) GMail will prompt you for your username, your password AND your 2nd factor authentication code to confirm you are you. 
* Optionally, you can have gmail call or sms your phone if you don't have one of the following: android, iphone, blackberry, or windows phone 7
1. Gmail provides printable backup codes - which you can use when traveling, or if you loose your cell phone. I store mine in the notes section of my gmail entry in KeePass.


So do it now - [turn on gmail's two factor authentication](https://accounts.google.com/SmsAuthConfig?hl=en)
